Your skin is composed of 3 layers.
The outer layer, or epidermis,
is made up of cells called keratinocytes.
They begin to form at the
bottom of the epidermis.
They divide, pushing already-formed cells upwards.
By the time the cells reach the skin’s surface,
they are no longer alive.
These are the dead skin cells
we constantly shed.
This process usually takes
about 30 days.
In psoriasis, it takes only 3 to 4.
And instead of falling off,
the dead cells pile up.
Psoriasis results from a problem
with a type of white blood cell
in the immune system called a T cell.
T cells normally detect
and fight off foreign substances.
In psoriasis,
T cells attack healthy skin cells
and trigger an immune response.
Blood vessels in the skin get larger.
Other white blood cells enter the epidermis.
The T cells release messenger chemicals
called cytokines,
which tell the keratinocytes
to reproduce and mature
much faster than normal.
New skin cells form
and move to the surface too quickly.
They build up as the thick,
scaly patches on the skin’s surface
that characterize psoriasis.